<a href="http://aws.amazon.com/">Amazon Web Services</a> (AWS), is a cloud-computing platform offered by Amazon. Wavefront supports cloud integrations, which allow you to ingest metrics directly from AWS and send them to Wavefront without needing to set up a Wavefront Proxy. The AWS cloud integration is the quickest and easiest way to get your <a href="http://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch">CloudWatch</a> and/or <a href="http://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail">CloudTrail</a> data into Wavefront. Your Wavefront account must have Agent Management permission to set up AWS cloud integration:

Wavefront supports three types of cloud integrations:

-   **CloudWatch** - Retrieves AWS metric and dimension data using the AWS CloudWatch API.
-   **CloudTrail** - Retrieves EC2 event information stored in JSON-formatted log files in an AWS S3 bucket.
-   **EC2** - Retrieves metrics from AWS APIs other than CloudWatch.

The mechanism to establish trust between Wavefront and AWS requires sharing an **external ID** between the two services. The external ID can be generated by Wavefront or by your company. The source of the external ID affects how you set up the integration. If you use an external ID generated by Wavefront you can set up all integration types at once. If you want to use an external ID generated by your company you must set up each integration separately.

In summary, the integration options are:

-   **Set up Amazon Account** - Integrate CloudWatch, Cloudtrail, and EC2 data. Choose this option if:
    -   You are an administrator for your company's AWS account.
    -   You want to integrate CloudWatch, CloudTrail, and EC2 data into Wavefront at the same time.
    -   You can use an external ID generated by Wavefront.
    -   You want Wavefront to automatically install AWS dashboards.
-   **Register [CloudWatch \| CloudTrail \| EC2]** - Integrate each type of data individually. Choose this option if:
    -   You are not an administrator for your company's AWS account, but will be gathering required information from an administrator.
    -   You want to integrate CloudWatch, CloudTrail, and EC2 data into Wavefront, but not at the same time.
    -   You want to use a custom external ID generated by your company.
    -   You can manually install AWS dashboards.  For a list of dashboards and more information, contact <a href="mailto:support@wavefront.com">support@wavefront.com</a>.
